That's it for the basics of rest APIs, we'll dive much deeper into rest APIs and build a real project
with the rest API in the next module.
The core concept and ideas are that rest
APIs are all about data, no user interface logic is exchanged. Rest APIs are normal node servers though
and that is really important to keep in mind, we're not building a totally different kind of app all of
a sudden, just the data format and the way we send responses changes because now we simply expose a couple
of endpoints which is a combination of http methods and paths
but we did this before too,
we just have more http methods available now and we exchange data in the json format for both requests and
responses,
we don't return html pages as the response anymore.
Rest APIs are decoupled from the clients therefore, they are totally decoupled,
they don't share any connection history or store any connection history.
Now when we have a look at the requests and responses, it is important to understand that you should
attach data for requests and responses in the json format and that you should let the other end know
by setting the content type header.
Expressjs does this automatically when using the json method, in the browser
it depends on which method you use, when using the fetch API as we did,
we had to set it manually, when you would use axios
another common library in browser side javascript for sending async requests,
it would be done automatically.
Cors errors are also something we had to look at,
they occur when the API and your client are sitting on different servers, different domains and they
want to exchange data.
You fix them in quotation marks because they are a security mechanism
but you can bypass that on purpose by setting the right cors headers which basically tell the client
hey it's fine,
I'm a public API,
you may use my data.
These are the basics.
Now let's dive much deeper into that,
use different http methods, add authentication and so on
by working on a real project.